# An extension to the networks from Fruits-360 repository #

The code here relies on the images from the [Fruits-360](https://github.com/Horea94/Fruit-Images-Dataset) repository.

# Running Object Detection

## 1 Prerequisites

### 1.1 Install  Python, TensorFlow 2 and other dependencies

[Install Python 3.9](https://www.python.org/downloads/) *The current version of the code was tested with version 3.9*

[Install TensorFlow 2](https://www.tensorflow.org/install)

Install opencv by running in a command line:

`pip install opencv-python`

Install scikit-learn by running in a command line:

`pip install scikit-learn`

Install shapely by running in a command line:

`pip install shapely`

Install pillow by running in a command line:

`pip install pillow`

## 2 Config (in folder src/object_detection)

Make a copy of each of the **detection_config.py.tmplt** and **labels.txt.tmplt** files and name them **detection_config.py** and **labels.txt**, respectively.

The **labels.txt** file is used to select the source classes from the Fruits-360 dataset to build the detection dataset. Each label should be on a separate line.

The **detection_config.py** file contains all the settings related to the data generation and network configuration.

## 3 Build dataset (in folder src/object_detection)

The default settings in **detection_config.py** uses 5 threads to generate 300 images, and the default **labels.txt** uses the Apple Red 1, Banana and Orange labels.

Provided in this repo, there is only one background image: Dataset/Backgrounds/default_bkg.png, Others images can be added (recommended resolution 1024 x 768, but any resolution works) and they will be used as background for generating data.

Run the following command

`python build_detection_dataset.py`

If the script was executed successfully, under the **Dataset** folder there should be a **Train** folder and a **Validation** folder containing **images**, **masks** and **annotations**.

**images** - contains images generated by the algorithm

**masks** - contains binary masks for each image, which can ve used for training a segmentation algorithm

**annotations** - contains a text file for each generated image with the coordinates of each bounding box as comma separated values

## 4 Training (in folder src/object_detection)

Ensure that you have generated at least one image for training and one for validation (check the Dataset/Train and the Dataset/Validation folders), otherwise the code as it is, will produce an error.

Copy either the **ssd512_config.py.tmplt** into a **ssd512_config.py** file or the **ssd300_config.py.tmplt** into a **ssd300_config.py** file to use the default detector settings. 
In the **train_ssd.py** file import the proper config file that was created and run.

For testing, ensure there is at least one annotated test image in the **Dataset/Test** folder (create it if not already present). 
There should be at least one image under the **Dataset/Test/images** folder and corresponding annotations in the **Dataset/Test/annotations** folder.

In the **test_ssd.py** file import the proper config file (similar to train_ssd.py) and run.

## License ##

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2017-2020 [Mihai Oltean](https://mihaioltean.github.io), Horea Muresan

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
